Assessment 1 – “Controlled Research Argument”
At the centre of this assignment is practicing how to engage with a specific argument from a
secondary source. This is a very important skill in academic writing. In this assignment, we
go beyond simply quoting from a piece of published research. You will apply the ideas/claims
of one piece of critical writing to a new situation, and present further arguments of your own
in response to it.
1.

Re-read carefully the following article.

This article will form the basis of your controlled research assignment paper – this an essay
that addresses the claims found in a limited number of critical sources.
•

Clay Calvert, Emma Morehart, and Sarah Papdelias. “Rap Music and the True
Threats Quagmire: When Does One Man’s Lyric become Another’s Crime.”
Columbia Journal of Law & Arts 38 (2014): 1-27.

2. Write an essay that presents your own argument in direct response to one of the
claims made in this article.
•

Your controlled research paper should identify a claim in the Calvert, Morehart and
Papdelias article. This is your starting-point: your task is to challenge or advance this
claim, using examples from real music or relevant examples or cases (either
the ones we covered in class or others that you find on your own).

•

This essay will involve identifying a narrow problem or issue put forward in the article,
putting forward an original claim of your own in response to this issue, providing
evidence, and linking this evidence to your claim.

At the centre of this assignment is practicing how to engage with a specific argument from a
secondary source by applying its ideas/claims to a new situation, and by presenting further
arguments of your own in response to it.
Length:
Weighting:
Due:

600-800 words.
20% of final grade.
Sunday, 9 March, 11.59pm (via Moodle)

1

Formatting and Submission of Assignment 1
Please follow these guidelines for formatting and author information – this is a good guide
to follow for all submitted essays at university:
• Include title, author name/student number and date on first page
• Double-spaced
• Consistent 3 cm (approx.) margins
• Font: Times New Roman, 12pt (or similarly professional font in readable 12pt size)
• Citation system. You may choose any standard citation system/style (e.g.
MLA/Chicago/APA) for your references, provided that you are consistent in its use.
Please follow these guidelines for electronic submission
• Submit assignments via Moodle – there is a link provided
• A good filename convention: <Surname-Assignment#-Date>
e.g. <Adair-Assignment1-11Mar2025>
Here is an example of how the essay’s formatting might look, following these rules:

Anya Adair, 11 March 2023
Free Speech Under Threat: The Problem of Pop Music
In their 2014 article “Rap Music and the True Threats Quagmire”, Calvert, Morehart and
Papdelias offer a number of suggestions for how courts should approach cases where a
supposed threat was made via rap lyrics. The authors argue that courts should assume that all
listeners understand something about the context of rap music when deciding if it is
“reasonable” for a subject to have felt threatened. They write that courts should “attribute
some minimal understanding of rap’s conventions—the understanding that a hypothetical
reasonable person would have—to the rap-ignorant target.”1 This essay will…

2

Seeking Help outside Class
I encourage you to seek extra help in developing your writing skills over the course of the
semester.
HKU offers a number of resources for writers; in composing and revising your papers, do
take advantage of these offerings.
I recommend especially the CSS 1:1 writing consultations, which can provide help at all
stages of your work. See < https://www.caescss.hku.hk/how-to-book>. Showing your
work to someone else, and hearing their opinion of how you’re going, is absolutely crucial to
writing development, and can help you to see things about your approach that you may not
have noticed. Just getting another set of eyes on your work can help you to see how it ‘reads’
to someone else – even if you end up disagreeing with their opinions!
So as a special offer, this course gives out a free, no-questions-asked 24-hour extension to
any student who emails their tutor a selfie of with their CSS consultant, undertaking a writing
consultation on their assignment!
Academic Honesty
This course seeks to help you use published research to support your own claims and
arguments on a topic. Any instance of plagiarism or any other form of academic dishonesty
(like unauthorized collaboration) may result in a failing grade or a more severe penalty.
Plagiarism is the use of other people’s ideas without acknowledging the source. Remember
that changing words around does not absolve you from acknowledging the source. Despite
what you may have heard elsewhere, you should avoid paraphrasing – this course is all about
the proper use of direct quotations! Do your source the credit of using his/her own words.
In tutorials, we will practice ways to blend quotations into your own sentences – use these
skills in your work!
The university has high expectations for ethical conduct among students. Students must
always pursue academic honesty in their studies, as this is a condition for authentic learning
and creative intellectual contributions. Committing the following (including but not limited
to) dishonest behaviour is unacceptable in any circumstances:
• Plagiarism (i.e. use of other people’s work without proper acknowledgement);
• Unauthorised use of AI or other writing tools in the completion of assignments;
• Submitting an assignment that is not the student’s own work, including the use of
prior students’ work;
• Forgery of any document or certificate.
Please be reminded that disciplinary actions in connection with the violation of academic
honesty may result in serious consequences such failing the assignment or the course,
suspension of study, withdrawal of academic awards, and, potentially, discontinuation of

3

studies at the University. Plagiarism may be handled by the individual teacher or reported to
the University Disciplinary Committee.
Resources with more information:
The HKU website on Plagiarism: https://tl.hku.hk/plagiarism/
The Library’s Plagiarism Site: https://learning.hku.hk/courses/coursev1:HKU+Library+ILT01/about
Turnitin: https://lib.hku.hk/turnitin/about.html.
Late Submission
If you are in need of an extension for medical or other extenuating circumstances, please be
sure to contact your tutor before the deadline and provide any supporting documentation.
In the absence of an agreed extension, late assignments may be marked down by one grade
category (e.g. A à A-) for each day that it is late.

4

Grading Rubric
For flexibility in the range of responses, percentages are not assigned to the elements below.
Note also that there will always be overlap between the criteria: serious defects in expression,
for example, are likely to impact the quality of the analysis.
Grading of the assignment takes a ‘best fit’ approach to the criteria below.
Criteria
Correct length,
directly addresses
essay question
Central Claim
Introduction
Supporting
Paragraphs
Textual Support/
Examples/
Evidence

Critical Thinking/
Analysis
Conclusion
Sentence Structure
and Clarity
Grammar/
Punctuation/
Spelling
Citation of secondary
source and any
primary sources

A
Exceeds
requirements

B
Meets all
requirements

C
Addresses all
requirements

D
Does not address
all requirements

Insightful
and/or original
Engaging and
effective
Relevant and
logical

Clear and
effective
Logical and
complete
Generally
related and
logical
Appropriate
and sufficient,
with sound
analysis

Weak or unclear

Missing or off
topic
Missing or overly
brief
Off topic or
incomplete

Some
originality and
analysis

Limited
understanding
and originality

Little originality
or understanding

Acceptable

Partial or weak

Some variety;
generally clear
Some errorsseveral minor
or few
serious
Good – may
be some
minor errors

Missing or not
relevant
No variety; many
errors
Intrusive errors
that impede
understanding

Limited; some
errors
Many serious
errors that
distract from
content
Adequate – some Poor – no
errors but effort attempt to follow
is clear
guidelines

Well-chosen
and persuasive,
accompanied
by appropriate
and insightful
analysis
Original and
thorough
understanding
and analysis
Effective and
clear
Varied and
clear
Minimal errors,
all minor
Excellent and
consistent

Underdeveloped
or unclear
Not always
relevant or
logical
Partial or
incomplete, with
some analysis

Few or
irrelevant, little
or no analysis

5

